- [Narrator] Of all the changes in spring 5.0,
I think the changes to the exception handling,
especially in the web world
is the one area that will save you the most amount of time,
especially if you've ever done exception handling
using response status.
Let's jump in here and take a look at that.
First of all, there's some changes
to the actual exception handler.
You now have the ability to have redirect attributes.
These redirect attributes give you flash attributes
that you can add to a redirect,
which is really useful for providing messaging
around page redirects due to an error.
And that's if you're using the exception handler API.
I don't like using exception handler,
I think it's too much abstraction away from the actual code.
And to date, I've always used response status,
which is just an annotation that you put on an exception
that allows you to actually control the response status
in the messaging that goes with that exception.
The problem is doing that,
that you actually get exception bloat
because you have all kinds of exceptions
that are slight variations of the same exact thing.
Spring has now addressed this
with the response status exception,
which is a runtime exception that you can use
to actually control the response status
and messaging of your application.
This is a huge decoupling that comes from this change
and to me this is really powerful,
because I would write applications with 10 to 15
different exception classes that I would then duplicate
into my next micro service
and then in my next micro service.
And they all were slightly different
because of the way that the application itself worked,
but are really all doing the same thing.
Let me show you how much of an improvement this is.
What I'd like to do is jump into our web application here
and open up source main Java
and then our default package here.
We're going to create a new controller class
and this one we're going to call demo controller.
To our demo controller,
let's add a rest controller annotation
in our request mapping annotation.
And we're going to send this one to demo.
And the first thing we're going to do,
is we're going to do a get mapping on 400.
And I'll show you what this is all about here in a moment.
So public string, get400.
Now, back in the day, in order to actually get an exception,
to throw with a 400 using the response status annotation,
we would have to create an exception class
and to that exception class,
we would have to put the response status
and then we would throw it from our method.
Now what you actually can do
is simply throw a response status exception
and you will pass it an HTTP status.
In this case, we're going to do bad request, which is 400.
And now we can put a message that demo through 400.
Let me shrink my window here so it's a little bit clearer
On the screen, that's all there is to that one.
Will do another one just so we can see the differences here.
We'll do a little 409 action
public string get 409.
And we will once again throw a new response status exception
was an HTTP status of conflict.
And we will be a little funny here
and say a little formula 409 action.
Alright, we'll go ahead and start up our application.
Once this gets started we'll jump over to our terminal
and I will once again use my HTTP tool
and it will simply go to local host
8080/demo/400
go ahead and do a little verbose action on that.
And you'll see that we get a bad request
demo through 400 with our message.
So now we have really good control
of the actual output of our status code.
This is very valuable if in your method
you want to send an area code that your application generates,
in addition to the standard HTTP response.
Let's run that method again
but this time we're going to go to 409.
And you'll see indeed, our messages changed as expected.
I cannot tell you how much time
this single feature alone will save me,
especially in creating five to 10 runtime exceptions
for my application to handle all of the bad
request situations and all the conflict situations
and the list goes on and on.
So really consider using this great addition
to the spring framework.